<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Introduction</title>
  <meta name="EPB-UUID" content="505f248d-3d9d-4422-a29c-ed383a2db20f"/>
</head>

<body epub:type="introduction" role="doc-introduction">
  <h1 id="toc1">Preface</h1>

  <h2 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Troubles of the Emerald Isle</h2>

  <h3 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Invasion, migration, and conflicts</h3>

  <p><b>Scandinavian invasion</b> : People from Norway and Denmark, also called Vikings, Norsemen and Normans, have for centuries been raiding, settling, and collaborating with the Irish people in Ireland for some time, as have the Scottish and Welsh. Ultimately a group of these Danish Vikings settled in France<a id="bodyftn1" href="../Text/content.xhtml#ftn1">1</a>, adopted the French language and customs, and conquered England, Scotland, and then Ireland. Not forgetting their influence in France, Italy, Palestine, and other parts of the world.</p>

  <p><b>British invasion</b> : Ireland having been in part controlled by the likes of Strongbow and the Norman-English since 1169. Prior to the Union of the Crowns in 1603, Ireland was caught up by the aspirations of Catholic King Louis XIV of France to control Europe, The lords in Ireland were divided in loyalty to their English Queens or to the French King whom supported their stance to become independent of the British Crown. &#160;Thus during this Nine Years War, Ireland was seen to be a possible back-door route for a foreign invasion of Britain. When the relationship between the British Crown and the Irish lords, such as Hugh O'Neill, Earl of Tyrone, broke down in the 1590s leading to a bloody war. Ulster was to be the last bastion of the native Irish but after O'Neill was finally defeated at Kinsale in 1601 resistance to English rule ended. After 'The Flight of the Earls' in 1607, King James I took advantage of the Irish-Gaelic power vacuum and sent 25000 English and Scottish Planters into the confiscated land (1610-1641). Many of these Planters were from the South-West Scotland and from along the English-Scottish border regions.</p>

  <p>The Rutledge involvement in Ireland began with many being forcefully evicted from the English-Scottish borders. &#160;Rutledges in Ulster were Plantation grantees and all men from the plantations were required to register in the army Muster roll. The Plantation of Ulster gave rise in 1641 to a Massacre of the Planters, slaughtering 4000 of the landholders, by native Irish-Catholics tenant farmers. Oliver Cromwell's Protestant Army responded To the Massacre of the Planters by invading Ireland (1649-1654) with 20000 men. Rutledges served as Officers and Soldiers in Cromwell's army and gained from the invasion. Most Irish-Catholic landowners were given the choice of ''to hell or to Connaught,'' which means exiled to the rocky land west of the River Shannon. Cromwell confiscated 11 million acres of Catholic land to give to English Protestants. There were however Rutledges whom had land confiscated following Cromwell's invasion.</p>

  <p>William of Orange was invited by the English Parliament in 1685 to fight James II who was a Catholic King of England but more importantly a threat to a Protestant-Parliamentary-England. The fight was dragged into Ireland when the showdown came at the massive Battle of the Boyne 1690. William of Orange defeated Catholic James II. As a result, thousands of Irish soldiers fled to Europe and control of much of the land in Catholic hands passed to Protestants. Rutledge land Grantees and Forfeiters were recorded after the post Williamite victory. From 1690 onwards the banner coloured orange became a symbol for pro English-Protestant people. Rutledges were Orange Men in later years but some were also Nationalists being Green for the whole of Ireland.</p>

  <p><b>Migration</b>&#160;: During the 1800s there was a mass exodus from Ireland, partly because of the brighter prospects in the New Worlds &#160;but the greatest movement of people from Ireland was undoubtedly due to the Potato Famine. Mind you, there were plenty of reasons why anywhere but Ireland would have been a good place to live. Overpopulation, wars upon wars conducted by kings and pretenders, &#160;glutinous aristocracy, and so forth, all fuelled the desire of people to move and in doing so settle in someone else's land to make a living. &#160;</p>

  <p><b>Conflicts</b> : As the saying goes in Ireland ''One man's rebel is another man's freedom fighter''<a id="bodyftn2" href="../Text/content.xhtml#ftn2">2</a>.&#160;Without going into the elaborate details of the Potato Famines, British invading Ireland, Protestants verses Catholics, it can be summed up rather plainly. In layman's terms, these are crude examples of &#160;conflicts that have plagued such a beautiful Ireland.</p>

  <ul>
    <li><p>Irish vs Irish</p></li>

    <li><p>Irish + Scottish vs Irish</p></li>

    <li><p>Irish vs Vikings</p></li>

    <li><p>Irish vs Normans</p></li>

    <li><p>English-Scottish Plantations vs Irish</p></li>

    <li><p>English Parliamentarians vs English Royalist + Irish Catholics</p></li>

    <li><p>English Anglicans vs Scottish Presbyterians</p></li>

    <li><p>English Protestants vs England + Scotland + Ireland</p></li>

    <li><p>English Parliament-Protestants + Dutch Protestant vs England + Scotland + Ireland</p></li>

    <li><p>Catholics vs Protestants</p></li>

    <li><p>Jacobites vs Protestants</p></li>

    <li><p>England vs Scotland + Ireland + France + Spain</p></li>

    <li><p>Landholders vs Tenants</p></li>

    <li><p>Unionists vs Nationalists</p></li>
  </ul>
</body>
</html>